README.md, before:

# eccentric-gw-inspiral-framework
See README for brief description.

# Eccentric GW Inspiral Framework

A lightweight numerical framework for evolving **eccentric compact binaries** under
Newtonian orbital dynamics with **Peters–Mathews radiation reaction** and generating
gravitational-wave **quadrupole waveforms**.  
The code uses an **adaptive RK4 integrator** with eccentricity-aware time-stepping to
resolve rapid pericenter motion while keeping low-eccentricity inspirals fast.

This project supports studies of:
- Eccentric binary inspirals
- Time–frequency GW morphology (amplitude evolution, chirp structure, spectrograms)
- Comparisons between numerical waveforms and analytic template-based waveforms
- KL-driven binaries injected from hierarchical triple dynamics

---

## Features

- **Adaptive RK4 integrator** with dynamic time-stepping based on eccentricity.
- **Newtonian orbital dynamics** with stable simulations down to the Schwarzschild ISCO.
- **Peters–Mathews radiation reaction** implemented via an effective drag force along the velocity.
- **Quadrupole GW polarizations** (h₊, h×) for an observer along the +z axis.
- **Automatic extraction of osculating orbital elements** (a(t), e(t)).
- **Waveform tools**:
  - Time-domain waveform generation
  - Amplitude envelopes
  - ASD (amplitude spectral density)
  - Spectrograms and instantaneous frequency tracks
- **Supports eccentric initial conditions** (a₀, e₀, f₀).

---

## Quick Start

```bash
git clone https://github.com/barkael327-a11y/eccentric-gw-inspiral-framework.git
cd eccentric-gw-inspiral-framework

Commit message:

Add note on simulation kernel setup
Added note about running the default simulation parameters in the README.

README.md, after:

# eccentric-gw-inspiral-framework
See README for brief description.
NOTE: Upon activating a python kernel to test this simulation, put run_default_sim.py before all other cells. This cell is where the parameters for the simulation (eccentricity, mass, separation, etc.) are determined. The default parameters are included in the figures for my research paper, but you may change them up to eccentricity = 0.9

# Eccentric GW Inspiral Framework

A lightweight numerical framework for evolving **eccentric compact binaries** under
Newtonian orbital dynamics with **Peters–Mathews radiation reaction** and generating
gravitational-wave **quadrupole waveforms**.  
The code uses an **adaptive RK4 integrator** with eccentricity-aware time-stepping to
resolve rapid pericenter motion while keeping low-eccentricity inspirals fast.

This project supports studies of:
- Eccentric binary inspirals
- Time–frequency GW morphology (amplitude evolution, chirp structure, spectrograms)
- Comparisons between numerical waveforms and analytic template-based waveforms
- KL-driven binaries injected from hierarchical triple dynamics

---

## Features

- **Adaptive RK4 integrator** with dynamic time-stepping based on eccentricity.
- **Newtonian orbital dynamics** with stable simulations down to the Schwarzschild ISCO.
- **Peters–Mathews radiation reaction** implemented via an effective drag force along the velocity.
- **Quadrupole GW polarizations** (h₊, h×) for an observer along the +z axis.
- **Automatic extraction of osculating orbital elements** (a(t), e(t)).
- **Waveform tools**:
  - Time-domain waveform generation
  - Amplitude envelopes
  - ASD (amplitude spectral density)
  - Spectrograms and instantaneous frequency tracks
- **Supports eccentric initial conditions** (a₀, e₀, f₀).

---

## Quick Start

```bash
git clone https://github.com/barkael327-a11y/eccentric-gw-inspiral-framework.git
cd eccentric-gw-inspiral-framework
